---
published: false
---

###### Notes


### Protocol Basics
 - set of guidelines which defines the communication between master and slave componets.
### Protocols: There are two types
 - on-chip
	- protocols which defines communication of components on the chip.
	- Data communication happnes in terms of transactions.
 - peripheral
	 - protocols which defines communication of components with the components outside the chip.
     - Data communication happnes in terms off packets/frames.
### AHB Protocol Basics 
 - ARM Propeietry protocol 
	 - All ARM processors will be either based on AXI or AHB 
 - Interconnect is used for connecting multiple master to multiple slaves
 - AHB based system architecture has below components 
	 - Masters
	 - Slaves
	 - Interconnect
 - Interconnect acts like a slave for AHB Master connection
 - Interconnect acts like a master for AHB slave connection
 - Interconnect routes the master requets to the target slave, routes the slaves responses to the correct master.
 - AHB Interconnect is made up of decoder + multiplexer logic
	 - It decodes incomming requests address, figures out in which direction request should be routed.
	 - It automaticaly knows in which direction response should be routed.
			- automatically: at any time 1master-1salve connection got established, so interconnect knows which master is active now.
 - AHB Transfers happen in `3` phases
	 - Arbitration phases
			- Which master has the grant, only that master can initiate a request phase.
			- Request phase
			- Data phase
 - All AHB signals starts with `H`.
 - Arbitration phase 
			- Master asserts a request signal to the arbiter. Arbiter will grant access to requesting master. Arbiter is present inside interconnect.
			- HBusReq (A master is requesting the interconnect that it want acces to the bus), Hlock (Master wants to do a locked transfer), Hmasterx (It indicated which master is given assess), Hgrantx (It is driven by the interconnet to tell, who has been given the grant), Hsplitx ()
 - Request phase 
			- AHB: Happens multiple times.
			- AXI: request phase happens only once
			- Granted master drives address & control information to slave initiating a new transfer
			- [Signals involved in Request phase] Haddr, Hwrite, Htrans, Hburst, Hsize, Hprot
 - Data phase 
			- Slave accepts Hwdata(from master) in case of write transfer
			- Issues Hrdata(from slave) in case of read transfer
			- Data phase is complete only when Hready=1
			- Hready, Hwdata, Hrdata, Hresp
 - Address & Control signals
			- Address, Direction, Width of transfer 
			- If the transfer is part of a burst.
 - Burst Transfer 
			- Incrementing Bursts, which do not wrap at address boundaries.
			- Wrapping Bursts, which wrap at particular address boundaries
 - Transfer:
			- An address & control Cycle
			- One or More cycles for the data
		
 - All slaves must sample the address during address & control cycle 
 - Data cycles can be extended by using the `HREADY` signal.
 - HRESP[1:0] : Okay, Error, Split, Retry
 - Arbiter can break up a burst and in such cases master must re-arbitrate for the bus in order to complete the remaining transfers in the burst.